                                   A quick review on Fedora 13
Distro Name: Fedora
Base: Fedora
Kernel Version: 2.6.34

Fedora 13 combines some of the latest open source features with an open and transparent
development process. Fedora 13 includes a variety of features and improvements to enhance
desktop productivity, assist in software development, and improve virtualization.

"Fedora continues to help advance free and open source software and content," said Paul Frields,
Fedora Project Leader at Red Hat. "This release comes just six months after the release of Fedora
12, and it incorporates technologies built by free software developers around the globe. The Fedora
Project reciprocates by contributing everything built in Fedora back to the open source community."
Fedora 13 includes several new features with special focus on desktops, netbooks, virtualization and
system administration. Its robust feature set includes:

Simpler installation and device access

The user interface of Anaconda, the Fedora installer, has changed to handle storage devices and
partitioning in an easier and more streamlined manner, with helpful hints in the right places. Once
installed, Fedora automatically offers driver installation when the user plugs in a printer. Software
applications for instant or scheduled data backups, photo management, and scanning make it easier
for users to load, edit, share, and secure their content. Color management offers creative users the
ability to produce more color-accurate art and photos, from loading to display to printing.

Accelerated 3D graphics using free drivers

In previous releases, Fedora introduced free and open source 3D drivers for Intel and ATI video
cards. In Fedora 13, a variety of Nvidia graphics cards can now be 3D enabled to support free
software games and an enhanced desktop experience. New DisplayPort connectors are now
supported on ATI and Nvidia cards as well. These free drivers are expected to be enhanced over the
course of Fedora 13 and beyond, and become part of the platform for the next-generation free
desktop including GNOME 3.

Virtualization enhancements

Fedora continues to be a leader in virtualization technologies and is one of the leading contributors
of key technologies like Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM), libvirt and virt-manager. Fedora 13
adds support for stable PCI addresses, enabling virtual guests to retain PCI addresses' space on a
host machine and expanding opportunities for large-scale automation of virtualization. New shared
network interface technology enables virtual machines to use the same physical network interface
cards as the host operating system. Fedora 13 also features improvements in performance for KVM
networking and large multi-processor systems. These features offer savvy technologists the
opportunity to experience virtualization innovations before they are seen in later releases of Red Hat
Enterprise Linux.

Enhanced software development and debugging

Fedora 13 includes new support that allows developers working with mixed libraries (Python and
C/C++) in Fedora to get more complete information when debugging with gdb, making rapid
application development even easier. The SystemTap utility adds support for static probes, giving
programmers expanded capabilities to improve and optimize their code. And with new support for
userspace processes, developers can instrument code written in high level languages such as
Python, database applications, and more.

Expanded Btrfs features

Fedora continues to be a key contributor to Btrfs development, and adds support for filesystem
snapshots in Fedora 13. Plugin support for snapshots allows administrators to experiment with
software updates and more easily revert the system as needed. As in previous releases, advanced
users can enable experimental Btrfs support in the installation process to try out this next-generation
file system.

~Chandan Prasad Gupta, President, PhilOSS, Mysore
gupta.chandan1@gmail.com
reference: http://www.muktware.com/distromatch/25/2010/140


